---
queryNum: 3
query: 'How does OpenEBS provide higher availability for stateful workloads?'
---

An OpenEBS Jiva Volume is a controller deployed during the OpenEBS installation. The parameter defines volume replicas we set in the PVC specification. The controller is an iSCSI target while the replicas play the role of a disk. The controller exposes the iSCSI target while the actual data is written through the replicas: the controller and each replica run inside a dedicated container. An OpenEBS Jiva Volume controller exists as a single instance, but there can be multiple instances of OpenEBS Jiva volume replicas. Persistent data is replicated synchronously to all the replicas. OpenEBS Jiva Volume HA is based on various scenarios, as explained in the following sections. NOTE: Each replica is scheduled in a unique K8s node, and a K8s node never has two replicas of one OpenEBS volume.

#### What happens when an OpenEBS volume controller pod crashes?

Kubernetes automatically reschedules the controller as a new Kubernetes pod. Policies are in place that ensure faster rescheduling.

#### What happens when a K8s node that hosts the OpenEBS volume controller goes offline?

The controller is automatically rescheduled as a new Kubernetes pod. Policies are in place that ensure faster rescheduling. If the Kubernetes node is unavailable, the controller gets scheduled on one of the available nodes.

#### What happens when an OpenEBS volume replica pod crashes for reasons other than node not-ready and node unreachable?

The number of replicas is expected to be a minimum of 3 to make sure data is continuously available and resiliency achieved. If one replica entirely becomes unavailable, a new replica is generated and is rebuilt with the data from the existing replicas. However, if there are only two replicas, a replica loss will result in the other replicas turning into Read-Only, and hence the entire persistent volume turning into Read-Only.

#### What happens when a K8s node that hosts OpenEBS volume replica goes offline?

There is no storage downtime as the other available replica displays inputs/outputs. Policies are in place that does not allow rescheduling of the crashed replica (as the replica is tied to a node’s resources) to any other node.
